Draft: Practical Zephyr part 4 "Devicetree semantics" (#411)
memfault/interrupt: _drafts/practical_zephyr_03_dt_semantics.md

```bash
$ grep second_value ../build/zephyr/include/generated/devicetree_generated.h
$ grep string_value ../build/zephyr/include/generated/devicetree_generated.h
$ grep label_with_props ../build/zephyr/include/generated/devicetree_generated.h
#define DT_N_NODELABEL_label_with_props DT_N_S_node_with_props
```

> **Note:** In case you want some practice, look at the [Devicetree specification](https://www.devicetree.org/specifications/) and try to use references to value labels in your Devicetree. I promise it won't work either.

The following macros are generated to represent a node and its labels:

`build/zephyr/include/generated/devicetree_generated.h`
```c
/*
 * Devicetree node: /node_with_props
 *
 * Node identifier: DT_N_S_node_with_props
 * --snip--
 */
/* Node's full path: */
#define DT_N_S_node_with_props_PATH "/node_with_props"
/* Node's name with unit-address: */
#define DT_N_S_node_with_props_FULL_NAME "node_with_props"
// --snip--
/* Existence and alternate IDs: */
#define DT_N_S_node_with_props_EXISTS 1
#define DT_N_INST_0_custom_props_basics DT_N_S_node_with_props
#define DT_N_NODELABEL_label_with_props DT_N_S_node_with_props
```

> The _identifier_ that is used for our `/node_with_props` is `DT_N_S_node_with_props`, which is exactly what we'd expect knowing the node's path and from what we've learned about [understanding Devicetree macro names](#understanding-devicetree-macro-names). This _identifier_ is itself just a _token_: No macro with the name `DT_N_S_node_with_props` exists!

Reviewer: I noticed that later on the name "node identifier" is used and I think it would be good to switch identifier -> node identifier as necessary

Author: Yep, makes sense. I'll change it.

You may have noticed that the `gpio` nodes do not conform to the naming convention that we've seen in the last article. This makes it a bit awkward to explain what needs to be provided for a `phandle-array` and the referenced nodes. Therefore, we'll build our own from scratch.

> **Note:** Have a look at [Zephyr's documentation about specifier cells](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/build/dts/bindings-syntax.html#specifier-cell-names-cells) in case you want to know how `gpios` opts out of the mentioned naming convention.

##### A `phandle-array` from scratch

Let's briefly review the rules for using `phandle-array`s that we've seen in the previous article. Notice that there's no need to understand them out of context, we'll see all of them in action in our example:

- By convention, a `phandle-array` property is plural and its name must thus end in _s_.
- The value of a `phandle-array` property is an array of phandles, but each phandle is followed by the pre-defined number of cells for each referenced node.

> - The number of cells that can follow a node's reference is specified by the node's _specifier cells_ property `#<prefix>-cells`.
> - _Specifier cells_ have a defined naming convention: The name is formed by removing the plural '_s_' and attaching '_-cells_' to the name of the `phandle-array` property.

Reviewer: I might combine these or switch the order, I got confused by seeing a prefix but that's not explicitly mentioned in either of the bullet points
```suggestion
- The number of cells that can follow a node's reference is specified by the node's _specifier cells_ property
- The _specifier cells_ property has a defined naming convention: The name is formed by removing the plural '_s_' and attaching '_-cells_' to the name of the `phandle-array` property: `#<name-without-s>-cells`
```

In the following sections, we'll be accessing the properties of the nodes that we've created throughout this article. In case you didn't follow along but still would like to try it out yourself, use [the freestanding application in the reference repository](https://github.com/lmapii/practical-zephyr/tree/main/03_devicetree_semantics). It also contains most code snippets in its `main.c` file.

### Macrobatics

Having seen the macros provided by Zephyr's generator script, it is now pretty obvious how nodes and property values are accessed by Zephyr's Devicetree API: The big "mystery" behind the Devicetree API is _token pasting_. In its simplest form, tokens are pasted or concatenated using the token-pasting operator `##`:

```c
// Let's assume we use macros with the format <identifier>_<property>,
// e.g., a "node" with property "string_value" set to "123-test"
#define node_string_value "123-test"

// Tokens in C macros are pasted using `##`.
#define TOKEN_CAT_3(a1, a2, a3)      a1##a2##a3

> #define NODE_PROP(node_id, property) TOKEN_CAT_3(node, _, string_value)

Reviewer: I think there's a small typo here?
```suggestion
#define NODE_PROP(node_id, property) TOKEN_CAT_3(node, _, property)
```
